If a signal is bandlimited by W = bandwidth of the signal is W

POWER SPECTRUM = Plot of frequency compnents against power

Faster the signal = Larger the signal bandwidth = Room for more information

Larger power in signal = larger intensity radio wave = Longer propagation distance and better immunity from non-ideal effects

Channel Gain is very less = received signal power only a tiny portion of the transmitted power

SIGNAL to NOISE RATIO = (transmitting power * Channel gain)/(Noise power)

SNR(pow) = SNR(vol)^2

Area of Isotropic Antenna = lambda^2/4pi

Power(dB) = 10log(Signal power(mW)/1mW)

CHANNEL GAIN = 10log((lambda^2/4pi)/(4pi*d^2))

SNR(dB) = 10 log10 (SNR(pow))
        = 20 log10 (SNR(vol))

BASE STATION
A fixed station in a mobile radio system used for radio communication with mobile
stations. Base stations are located at the center or on the edge of a coverage region and
consist of radio channels and transmitter and receiver antennas mounted on a tower.

CONTROL CHANNEL
Radio channels used for transmission of call setup, call request, call initiation, and other
beacon or control purposes.

FORWARD CHANNEL
Radio channel used for transmission of information from the base station to the mobile.

FULL DUPLEX
Communication systems which allow simultaneous two-way communication.
Transmission and reception is typically on two different channels (FDD) although new
cordless PCS systems are using TDD.

HALF DUPLEX
Communication systems which allow two-way communication by Systems using the
same radio channel for both transmission and reception. At any given time, the user can
only either transmit or receive information.

HANDOFF
The process of transferring a mobile station from one channel or base station to another.

MOBILE STATION
A station in the cellular radio service intended for use while in motion at unspecified
locations. Mobile stations may be hand-held personal units (portables) or installed in
vehicles (mobiles).

MOBILE SWITCHING CENTER
Switching center which coordinates the routing of calls in a large Center service area. In a
cellular radio system, the MSC connects the cellular base stations and the mobiles to the
PSTN. An MSC is also called a mobile telephone switching office (MTSO).

PAGE
A brief message which is broadcast over the entire service area, usually in a simulcast
fashion by many base stations at the same time.

REVERSE CHANNEL
Radio channel used for transmission of information from the mobile to base station.

ROAMER
A mobile station which operates in a service area (market) other than that from which
service has been subscribed.

SIMPLEX SYSTEM
Communication systems which provide only one-way communication.

SUBSCRIBER
A user who pays subscription charges for using a mobile communications system.

TRANSCEIVER
A device capable of simultaneously transmitting and receiving radio signals.